---
icon: akar-icons:node-fill
---

# Node.js

> Run Nitro apps with Node.js runtime.

**Preset:** `node_server`

Node.js is the default Nitro output preset for production builds.

Build your project with the Nitro CLI:

```bash
nitro build
```

With the Node server preset, the build output is an entry point that launches a ready-to-run Node server. To try the output locally:

```bash
$ node .output/server/index.mjs
Listening on http://localhost:3000
```

You can now deploy the fully standalone `.output` directory to the hosting of your choice.

## Environment Variables

You can customize server behavior with the following environment variables:

- `NITRO_PORT` or `PORT` (defaults to `3000`)
- `NITRO_HOST` or `HOST`
- `NITRO_UNIX_SOCKET` - When set to a socket file path, the server listens on the provided UNIX socket.
- `NITRO_SSL_CERT` and `NITRO_SSL_KEY` - When both are set, the server launches in HTTPS mode. This is intended for testing only; in production, run the Nitro server behind a reverse proxy that terminates SSL, such as nginx or Cloudflare.
- `NITRO_SHUTDOWN_DISABLED` - Set to `'true'` to skip graceful shutdown. Defaults to `'false'`.
- `NITRO_SHUTDOWN_SIGNALS` - Space-separated list of signals that trigger graceful shutdown. Defaults to `'SIGINT SIGTERM'`.
- `NITRO_SHUTDOWN_TIMEOUT` - Time (in milliseconds) before a forced shutdown occurs. Defaults to `'30000'`.
- `NITRO_SHUTDOWN_FORCE` - When set to `'true'`, calls `process.exit()` at the end of the shutdown process. When `'false'`, the process simply lets the event loop clear. Defaults to `'true'`.

## Cluster mode

**Preset:** `node_cluster`

To improve performance by leveraging multiple CPU cores, use the cluster preset.

### Environment Variables

In addition to the `node_server` environment variables above:

- `NITRO_CLUSTER_WORKERS`: Number of cluster workers (defaults to the number of available CPU cores)

## Handler (advanced)

**Preset:** `node_middleware`

Nitro also has a lower-level preset that exports a middleware function you can plug into a custom server.

With the Node middleware preset, the build output is an entry point exporting a middleware handler.

**Example:**

```js
import { createServer } from 'node:http'
import { middleware } from './.output/server'

const server = createServer(middleware)
server.listen(8080)
```
